Vector-Quantized Entropy
========================

Assessment of brain dynamics elicited by motor imagery (MI) tasks
contributes to clinical and learning applications. In this regard,
Event-Related Desynchronization/Synchronization (ERD/S) is computed from
Electroencephalographic signals, which show considerable variations in
complexity. We present an Entropy-based method, termed VQEnt, for
estimation of ERD/S using quantized stochastic patterns as a symbolic
space, aiming to improve their discriminability and physiological
interpretability. The proposed method builds the probabilistic priors by
assessing the Gaussian similarity between the input measured data and
their reduced vector-quantized representation. The validating results of
a bi-class imagine task database (left and right hand) prove that VQEnt
holds symbols that encode several neighboring samples, providing similar
or even better accuracy than the other baseline sample-based algorithms
of Entropy estimation. Besides, the performed ERD/S time-series are
close enough to the trajectories extracted by the variational percentage
of EEG signal power and fulfill the physiological MI paradigm. In BCI
literate individuals, the VQEnt estimator presents the most accurate
outcomes at a lower amount of electrodes placed in the sensorimotor
cortex so that reduced channel set directly involved with the MI
paradigm is enough to discriminate between tasks, providing an accuracy
similar to the performed by the whole electrode set.

--------------

References
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Velasquez-Martinez, L., Caicedo-Acosta, J., & Castellanos-Dominguez,
   G. (2020). Entropy-Based Estimation of Event-Related
   De/Synchronization in Motor Imagery Using Vector-Quantized Patterns.
   Entropy, 22(6), 703.
